---
layout: 	blogpost
size:     s
title:  	"Installing and ricing a dual-boot Linux installation"
tags:   	design linux build-logs
excerpt:	|

colour:		"#0EC5E9"
---







***

Motivation:
-----------------
- Power/customisability
  - scripting!
  - Having full understanding of how my system is set up helps me be able to solve any issues I have
- Beauty
- Experience/upskilling
- The Arch Way



Process
-----------
- First step: work out how to install Linux on a Windows PC
  - Use Windows to reduce size of a system partition on my SSD so I minimize the risk of destroying data from parted
    - Allocating 30GB for the install
  - Set time standard in Windows as per dual boot guide
  - Disable Fast Start-up in Win10
  - Windows installed using BIOS-MBR, so need to use either GRUB or syslinux. Will start with GRUB and install BURG.
  - Going to install Arch using BIOS-MBR to make life simple.
- Sort out filesystem structure that would allow me to access all shared files split across drives on both OSes - including shared Desktop/Downloads/etc directories
- Determine window manager to use

Installation:
-------------
- 30GB unallocated space to work with on the SSD
- Wanted to create separate / and /boot paritions, but couldn't, as already had 3 primary partitions for Windows. If I wanted 2 more, I'd need to create an extended partition, but /boot needed to be primary!
- Ended up just creating one partition for /.
- Installed system
- Generated fstab file
- GRUB config couldn't find Win10, but rebooting fixed this.
  - But after reboot, found several bootloaders across hard drives from old Windows installations!
  - Need to tidy that up later
- Created user (with zsh as login shell)
  - Logged in as new user.
  - Ran zsh new user install process, but too complicated to do much for now
- Logged back in as root
- Installed sudo and set up sudoers file
- Install Xorg
  - Using default dependencies for OpenGL
- Install yaourt for easy AUR downloads - hmmm... bit hard to use :/
- Later: Install proprietary catalyst drivers from AUR as I plan on playing games.
- Install LightDM: lightdm and lightdm-gtk-greeter (for now)
- OK! Now I need to decide on a WM!
  - Options:
    - i3-gaps
    - 2bwm
    - openbox
    - bspwm
    - wmutils
    - herbstluftwm
  - Going to try i3-gaps to start with
  - Finally managed to install it (had to manually install a bunch of make/gcc/etc dependencies.
  - and... now what? Don't know how to do anything!
   - mod+d to open dmenu - more specifically, does nothing as need to install dmenu first.
 - Need to install a terminal emulator so I can do things at least
   - Installed rxvt-unicode, as it seems to be popular.
- Played around with i3 some more to learn a few of the basic key bindings.
- Installed ntfs-3g and added other partitions to fstab
  - Will symlink to folders in HDD from /home/sam later
- Next: really need to set up displays correctly with xrandr so I can actually use my main monitor!
  - xdpyinfo shows that my 3 monitors are being reported as only one monitor
  - installed xrandr
  - Install xrdb and create an .Xresources dotfile
    - Created in ~/dotfiles but symlinked from ~/.Xresources
  - Didn't really work properly. Instead, let's just set the resolution of the display to 1440p for now :/
    - Created /usr/share/video-start-script.sh and added to /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf as display-setup-script
  - Basically working system at this point!
  - Now I can start installing some essential software so I can start using my system. (Chrome, yay!)
- Installed pulseaudio
  - alsa-firmware, pulseaudio-alsa, alsa-utils
  - Unmuted master audio output using alsamixer, but not sure if pulseaudio is set up correctly yet - need to check this later
    - Now I can listen to music while setting things up ;)
- Installed oh-my-zsh; tried to use the agnoster theme but all the colours are weird, and there are symbols missing. Need to solve that later (hint: it's on the GitHub project page)
  - switched rxvt-unicode for termite; colours are nicer
- Installed intel-ucode package to update microcode of CPU on boot (because I have an affected CPU by the Haswell microcode bugs)
- Fixed Windows Update not working with grub/burg
  - just needed to make the 350MB Windows reserved (system) partition active again!


Todo
----
- Catalyst drivers (OK, this sounds super complicated, so let's do it later)
- Remove extra Windows bootloaders



Resources
=========
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Dual_boot_with_Windows
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/beginners'_guide
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_Linux#Principles
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GRUB#Dual-booting
