_drafts/2016-06-21-linux.md, before:

---
layout: 	blogpost
size:     s
title:  	"Installing and ricing a dual-boot Linux installation"
tags:   	design linux build-logs
excerpt:	|

colour:		"#0EC5E9"
---

- First step: work out how to install Linux on a Windows PC
  - Use Windows to reduce size of a system partition on my SSD so I minimize the risk of destroying data from parted
    - Allocating 30GB for the install
  - Set time standard in Windows as per dual boot guide
  - Disable Fast Start-up in Win10
  - Windows installed using BIOS-MBR, so need to use either GRUB or syslinux. Will start with GRUB and install BURG.
  - Going to install Arch using BIOS-MBR to make life simple.
- Sort out filesystem structure that would allow me to access all shared files split across drives on both OSes
- Determine window manager to use

Installation:
-------------
- 30GB unallocated space to work with on the SSD
- Wanted to create separate / and /boot paritions, but couldn't, as already had 3 primary partitions for Windows. If I wanted 2 more, I'd need to create an extended partition, but /boot needed to be primary!
- Ended up just creating one partition for /.
- Installed system
- Generated fstab file
- GRUB config couldn't find Win10, but rebooting fixed this.
  - But after reboot, found several bootloaders across hard drives from old Windows installations!
  - Need to tidy that up later
- Created user (with zsh as login shell)
  - Logged in as new user.
  - Ran zsh new user install process, but too complicated to do much for now
- Logged back in as root
- Installed sudo and set up sudoers file
- Install Xorg
  - Using default dependencies for OpenGL
- Install yaourt for easy AUR downloads - hmmm... bit hard to use :/
  - Later: Install proprietary catalyst drivers from AUR as I plan on playing games.
- Install LightDM: lightdm and lightdm-gtk-greeter (for now)
- OK! Now I need to decide on a WM!
  - Options:
    - i3

- Do I need to set up the Intel microcode package?





Resources
=========
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Dual_boot_with_Windows
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/beginners'_guide
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_Linux#Principles
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GRUB#Dual-booting

Commit message:

Removing old Linux draft, updating new Linux draft with more info

_drafts/2016-06-21-linux.md, after:

---
layout: 	blogpost
size:     s
title:  	"Installing and ricing a dual-boot Linux installation"
tags:   	design linux build-logs
excerpt:	|

colour:		"#0EC5E9"
---

- First step: work out how to install Linux on a Windows PC
  - Use Windows to reduce size of a system partition on my SSD so I minimize the risk of destroying data from parted
    - Allocating 30GB for the install
  - Set time standard in Windows as per dual boot guide
  - Disable Fast Start-up in Win10
  - Windows installed using BIOS-MBR, so need to use either GRUB or syslinux. Will start with GRUB and install BURG.
  - Going to install Arch using BIOS-MBR to make life simple.
- Sort out filesystem structure that would allow me to access all shared files split across drives on both OSes
- Determine window manager to use

Installation:
-------------
- 30GB unallocated space to work with on the SSD
- Wanted to create separate / and /boot paritions, but couldn't, as already had 3 primary partitions for Windows. If I wanted 2 more, I'd need to create an extended partition, but /boot needed to be primary!
- Ended up just creating one partition for /.
- Installed system
- Generated fstab file
- GRUB config couldn't find Win10, but rebooting fixed this.
  - But after reboot, found several bootloaders across hard drives from old Windows installations!
  - Need to tidy that up later
- Created user (with zsh as login shell)
  - Logged in as new user.
  - Ran zsh new user install process, but too complicated to do much for now
- Logged back in as root
- Installed sudo and set up sudoers file
- Install Xorg
  - Using default dependencies for OpenGL
- Install yaourt for easy AUR downloads - hmmm... bit hard to use :/
- Later: Install proprietary catalyst drivers from AUR as I plan on playing games.
- Install LightDM: lightdm and lightdm-gtk-greeter (for now)
- OK! Now I need to decide on a WM!
  - Options:
    - i3-gaps
    - 2bwm
    - openbox
    - bspwm
    - wmutils
  - Going to try i3-gaps to start with

Todo
----
- Do I need to set up the Intel microcode package?
- Catalyst drivers
- Install/configure ntfs-3g and then mount extra hard drives in /mnt
  - Then symlink to points in HDDs from /home/sam




Resources
=========
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Dual_boot_with_Windows
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/beginners'_guide
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_Linux#Principles
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GRUB#Dual-booting
