_drafts/2016-06-26-linux-2.md, before:

---
layout: 	blogpost
size:     s
title:  	"Installing and ricing a dual-boot Linux installation: part 2"
tags:   	design linux build-logs
excerpt:	|

colour:		"#0EC5E9"
---


- Installed oh-my-zsh, but all the colours are weird, and there are symbols missing. Need to solve that later.
- Trying to use BURG to customize the GRUB bootloader
  - Not sure about compatibility with Arch, but it's still in AUR, so I'm going to install it anyway and hope for the best
  - make backup of /boot/grub and /etc/grub.d


Start of actual ricing:
-----------------------

- Installing herbstluftwm to try
  - seems powerful, but even steeper learning curve than i3!
  - managed to start floating mode ("herbstclient floating") and worked out how to move/resize windows using the mouse, so at least it's "usable" now
  - following the tutorial:
    - installed dzen2 - great, now I have a panel
    - copied /etc/xdg/herbstluftwm/autostart to ~/.config/herbstluftwm/autostart
    - uncommented the hc detect_monitors and Mod4 line
    - reading through the file, learnt a few keybindings which help me to navigate hlwm (incl. Mod+tab to cycle frames, Mod+Backspace to cycle monitors, Mod+1..9 to change tags within the monitor, Mod+arrows to focus windows, Mod+r to remove... etc etc etc etc)
	- FIRST SCREENSHOT!
    - replaced "xsetroot" line with "feh --bg-scale $HOME/pictures/<...>" line
	- SECOND SCREENSHOT
    - happy with how hlwm is set up for now, let's set something else up!

- Created ~/dotfiles directory where I will keep all my configuration files. I symlink to them from the expected locations (e.g. ~/.config/herbstluftwm/autostart -> ~/dotfiles/herbstluftwm-autostart) so that I can use git to manage my rices better.
  - uncommented the ZSH_CUSTOM line from .zshrc (generated by .oh-my-zsh) to point at dotfiles
    - ZSH_CUSTOM=$HOME/dotfiles



- Installing burg
  - Finally built it from AUR after installing a million more dependencies
  - burg-install /dev/sdc, burg-mkconfig -o /boot/burg/burg.cfg
  - Downloaded a custom theme from http://sworiginal.deviantart.com/art/Lightness-for-burg-181461810
  - update-burg along the way
  - after realising that it was starting on my TV, I got it working by changing the resolution (?)
  - working! But need to remove the MBRs from old hard drives
    - Will try this through Windows


Todo
----
- move Desktop & Downloads to a shared drive so I can access them from both
- swap urxvt for termite
- emoji keyboard input
- status bar (lemonbar/yabar)
- menu to switch open windows
- conky in status bar
  - redshift status!
- rofi for opening apps


Resources
=========
https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/38ht3a/toggleable_status_info_using_conky_and/
http://herbstluftwm.org/tutorial.html#client

Commit message:

More changes to Linux posts. Also added draft of arcade machine software

_drafts/2016-06-26-linux-2.md, after:

---
layout: 	blogpost
size:     s
title:  	"Installing and ricing a dual-boot Linux installation: part 2"
tags:   	design linux build-logs
excerpt:	|

colour:		"#0EC5E9"
---


- Trying to use BURG to customize the GRUB bootloader
  - Not sure about compatibility with Arch, but it's still in AUR, so I'm going to install it anyway and hope for the best
  - make backup of /boot/grub and /etc/grub.d


Start of actual ricing:
-----------------------

- Installing herbstluftwm to try
  - seems powerful, but even steeper learning curve than i3!
  - managed to start floating mode ("herbstclient floating") and worked out how to move/resize windows using the mouse, so at least it's "usable" now
  - following the tutorial:
    - installed dzen2 - great, now I have a panel
    - copied /etc/xdg/herbstluftwm/autostart to ~/.config/herbstluftwm/autostart
    - uncommented the hc detect_monitors and Mod4 line
    - reading through the file, learnt a few keybindings which help me to navigate hlwm (incl. Mod+tab to cycle frames, Mod+Backspace to cycle monitors, Mod+1..9 to change tags within the monitor, Mod+arrows to focus windows, Mod+r to remove... etc etc etc etc)
	- FIRST SCREENSHOT!
    - replaced "xsetroot" line with "feh --bg-scale $HOME/pictures/<...>" line
	- SECOND SCREENSHOT
    - happy with how hlwm is set up for now, let's set something else up!

- Created ~/dotfiles directory where I will keep all my configuration files. I symlink to them from the expected locations (e.g. ~/.config/herbstluftwm/autostart -> ~/dotfiles/herbstluftwm-autostart) so that I can use git to manage my rices better.
  - uncommented the ZSH_CUSTOM line from .zshrc (generated by .oh-my-zsh) to point at dotfiles



- Installing burg
  - Finally built it from AUR after installing a million more dependencies
  - burg-install /dev/sdc, burg-mkconfig -o /boot/burg/burg.cfg
  - Downloaded a custom theme from http://sworiginal.deviantart.com/art/Lightness-for-burg-181461810
  - update-burg along the way
  - after realising that it was starting on my TV, I got it working by changing the resolution (?)
  - working! But need to remove the MBRs from old hard drives
    - Will try this through Windows


- Customising hlwm
  - Adding to herbstluft autostart to generate an edited version of my wallpaper using ImageMagick after setting it
    - "convert -resize 1% -resize 10000% $WALLPAPER $HOME/.login-bg.png"
    - not working, as can't access home folder (obviously); need to work out how to give hlwm permission to copy the file to /etc/share/pixmaps.
  - Installed rofi, bind to a key in the autostart file
    - "hc keybind $Mod-Return spawn rofi -show run"
    - Now rofi starts with Super+Return, instead of just opening a terminal

- Installed Xmodmap to swap my super and alt keys (I have a cuustom Apple keyboard: so Ctrl = Ctrl, Option = Alt, Cmd = Super... but at firmware level, these are normally swapped around to work better with Windows).
    - Now switched rofi to use Super+Space to match Spotlight from my Mac; also, added a window-switching mode on Super+Shift+Space. Moved previous occupants of those shortcuts to their Return equivalents


Todo
----
- move Desktop & Downloads to a shared drive so I can access them from both
  - also, I should move my Linux home folder to a shared drive also?
- emoji keyboard input
- status bar - yabar
- conky in status bar
  - redshift status! (and also a click-to-toggle)
  - package upgrade status
  - music (Now Playing) status (and link to GPM)
  - time & date (with calendar dropdown)
- composite manager (e.g. Compton, Cairo)


Resources
=========
https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/38ht3a/toggleable_status_info_using_conky_and/
http://herbstluftwm.org/tutorial.html#client
